Now this week native application is built with the help of expo as you know now as I mentioned at the
beginning of the course this still is a regular React Native application day for Expo.
Just as an extra wrapper which provides a lot of convenience features out of the box that makes building
this app easier.
And it's like a shell app in which our app runs which therefore makes tapping into a lot of native devise
functional is easier and especially easier to setup.
Now as I also mentioned at the beginning of this module in a separate module I will show you how you
can add native device features to non Expo apps.
But actually if you don't have a reason for not using expo I would strongly recommend that you do use
it because Expo if you check their docs has a lot of built in features and a lot of built in native
modules you can use.
So native device features you can easily add.
And you see a full list here by going to the docs and there to the API reference.
Here you see a bunch of things you can add to your app and these are mostly native device functionalities
which are all provided by Expo out of the box.
So you'll still need to install something but you'll need to do no manual configuration.
And as you'll see in the building an app without Expo module there is quite some configuration you might
need to do if you're adding native modules native device feature packages to a non Expo app.
So this is really sweet here.
Now I want to use a camera and indeed there is a camera package which you can add.
We could actually use that to access the device camera.
This is perfect.
If you need to build an application dad really needs to do a lot with the camera.
If you're building like like Instagram like an application where you really want to control the entire
camera screen and the entire camera flow it's actually not what I want to do here.
I want to use the regular device camera.
Don't need anything special there.
I just care about getting an image which the user can take.
And for Dad we actually get the image picture does all allows us to use the device camera but it doesn't
allow us to customize the camera that much.
But that's exactly what I need here.
Now all we need to do to get access to it is run this expo install command which by the way is like
npm install just that it makes sure that it installs a version of the package that is guaranteed to
work with our specific version of Expo we're using in this app so I'll just copy this command.
And then in this project we can run Expo install Expo image picker hit enter and this will now install
this package with npm install behind the scenes does what it does here.
Justin we're networking that fits our expo SDK where we're using in this project and this will now install
it and that's it.
No extra configuration is needed.
We don't need to touch any config file.
We don't need to do anything else.
This make sure that we can use this functionality.
And that's of course very easy.
With that we can start using it and want to start using it here on the new place screen where we have
text input right there.
I also want to now add a button which to use you can press to open up the camera.
Now of course for all these native device features and all of the many features we of course can't cover
in this course you always learn how you may use them here in your official Expo dog stare you learn
which methods and properties you can access to air you find some short examples for many packages.
So that's definitely something you should check out for the camera of course you can also follow along
because well well use it to gather here to take a picture.
I'll actually create a new component image selector dot Che as you can name it whatever you want in
which I import react from react and where I am or a view and a button and also a text from react native.
And also the style sheet of course because I want to style my image picker.
Let's actually name it image picker I like that my image picker component.
So you're image picker is then a regular component of course where I want to set up some styles with
the style sheet create method and where I in the end export the image picker component.
Now what's going to happen here in the image picker component in the end in here.
I'll return a view which should then hold a number of you where I can display a preview of the image.
So in there I want to have the text component where I say no image picked yet which is my fallback content
if well no image was picked yet.
Otherwise I'll display an image.
So we'll all need to import the image component from reactive and below that view.
I'll add a button with a title of take image where I want to set the color to colors dot primaries over
dad make sure you import that color is constant and upon a press I well want to open up the camera and
display it to the user so I'll also add a constant here take image handler and that's a function which
should open up the camera.
And that's the functional bind to this button.
Now some styling would be nice all that out of you all add a style of image picker on this interview
which displays a preview of my image.
I'll add a style of image preview then this texture could all be styled but I actually need no special
style there and of course I also want to output an image here and I'll soon add a if else condition
to only display Uber to text or to image.
And this should also get some style of maybe just image.
So now we have free style identifiers which we need to add to the style sheet.
Get the image picker for the overall component.
Get the image preview and then we got the image itself.
The image itself is simple there I just want to set a width of 100 percent and a height of 100 percent
so that it takes the full with the height of the surrounding preview container.
That container then can of course be configured however you want to configure it.
I'll give it a width of 100 percent and a height of 200 pixels.
But of course you can change that or calculate it dynamically with the dimensions API add a margin to
the bottom of 10 and make sure that my placeholder text would actually be centered by adding justify
a content center and a line items center here.
And besides dead I also will add a border year with border color light gray color and border width of
one.
Now for the image picker component component in general all just set this to a line items centered to
make sure that all the items are centered horizontally.
But now we're all here to really open the device camera right.
So before we do anything else here regarding the preview ends on let's make sure that here in detail
take image handler we do actually open up the camera and for that let's import everything as image picker
from export image pictures from this package you just installed now.
Since I used image picker here and all over the component will have a name clash so I'll name this iron
Jeep picker here just to a white horse named clash which would otherwise cause problems.
Also change changed here in the export of course.
So now with the image picker imported here we can use it here.
Image picker.
And there we can call launch camera async.
You can also open the gallery instead if you wanted to.
But here all call launch camera async.
Now this will open up the device camera and the async part here kind of implies that this so is an async
operation.
Indeed this does return a promise which makes sense because it opens to camera and we don't know when
the user will be done taking the image.
So it will then just register a function which it should execute once the user is done and resolve the
promise to execute that function well once that happens once the user is done or although of course
once he was or cancels we can handle all of that and the result and so on later for now let's see whether
that works and for that let's include the image picker component in the new place screen.
So there we can import Image picker and here of course we can use that name because we're not using
the image picker package in here import that from components from the image picker component and add
this image picker here below our text input as a self closing component like this.
Now if we save that let's have a look here.
That text is on that's not positioned properly we don't need to worry about that right now let's instead
press take image and what you'll see is that nothing happens but then I get a warning missing camera
or camera roll permission on Android if I try it dare I ask whether I want to grant permissions I need
to press allow here with that the camera does open so that's good.
It generally works.
I can use it I can press this button they offer and then confirm the image I took.
But on ISIS it does not work and why is that the case well on IAW we got a permission error here.
Right.
And that simply happens because permissions are important but they work differently on ISIS and Android
on Android.
You also set up permissions in advance and since we're using this expo application where Expo provides
this rapper Expo actually does all this permissions set up and requesting for us for I the permission
system works a bit differently.
You don't really set it up such that you have a conflict file where you define all permissions in advance
and that's it.
Instead you have to ask for permission at runtime.
Side note by the way in some versions of Android you also now should do that.
Still there expo as you see does it for use for Android it kind of works like that on I guess it doesn't.
You need to ask the user for a permission to access the camera and that's simply something we need to
do here and we can do it with the help of a never Expo package.
And that is the permissions package.
You also need to install that with disk command here into your project so that you can ask the user
for permissions.
So let's do this here in the project.
Let's run Expo install export permissions which again is just as wrapper around NPM install to install
the permissions for this project or to install this package where it is project and then in the image
picker before we try launching the camera and opening the camera we'll need to ask for permissions for
that all actually add a new constant here get or verify pur missions.
And this is a function that holds a function which will use this newly added permissions package.
So here I input everything ask permissions from Expo permissions.
So the same kind of import as we have it for the image picker.
And then there we can use permissions and ask asynchronously.
Again that's an async task which returns a promise because this will open up a prompt and before the
user has chosen answer nothing will happen.
So therefore we have the promise which resolves or is rejected once to use or confirmed or declined
so here we then need to be more specific about which permission we need though.
So we pass something to ask async and that's a constant we get from the permissions object we're importing
here.
So if the dot notation here we can access different kinds of permissions and here all these capitalized
names are the different permissions you can't ask for.
Now here we need the camera permission because we want to access the camera.
He wanted to access to gallery that would be the camera roll permission by the way.
Now I'll go for a camera here.
And as I said This returns a promise I want he was async await here.
Hence I can add async here in front of the function and then await this and get the result and stored
in a constant.
The alternative to that would be using then and catch on this.
And there we now can check if result dot status is not equal to granted which means the user declined.
The user did not grant permissions.
In that case we can't continue.
So here I'll actually throw an alert then so import alert from React Native and throw an alert where
I say alert dot alert insufficient permissions you need two grand camera app permissions to use this
app or any output you want to show.
And then I'll add one button here where I say OK now the user will need to change the permissions in
these system settings after declining them anyways so we can't ask for permissions again here once they
were declined.
So here I want to return false because it's hard to verify permissions function and I want to return
False if the user kind of didn't grant us permissions.
I return true otherwise because now we know we have permissions.
By the way if we call this function multiple times and the user did already grant permissions in the
past the user will not be presented with this prompt again the same by the wave.
The user declined in both cases D result is stored automatically by ISIS and dysfunction will just return
true or false depending on whether the user denied or granted access in the past.
So verify permissions is now simply a function which we need to call in to take.
Image handler before we try to use the camera.
So here I also want to use async await because verify permissions of course is a function that returns
a promise.
So I will await this and store to resolve which all stored content named has permission.
Because this is either true or false depending on whether the user granted permissions or not.
Now if this is false so if it's not true I'll just return here.
I won't continue I won't open a camera because I'll not be allowed to do that anyways so we just can't
continue.
That's the thing.
Otherwise we can continue and now we should be able to launch a camera on ISIS as well.
So let's give it a try.
Let's save that.
And now with that changed I'll actually uninstall expo here to make sure dad regarding the permissions
I granted their IDs back to the initial state.
You probably don't need to do that if you never granted any permissions in your expo.
But if you played around with permissions and native packages before you should uninstall and then reinstall
the expo app by again running your app on IAW by pressing ie in the console down there to make sure
that all these permissions are reset.
So now if we go through the new play screen and take click take image I'm asked whether I want to grant
access to the camera and here I can click OK and now we still get that error.
Now the only reason for that is that even though we're trying to access the camera here there's actually
and that's just something got an overdose package requires permissions for the full camera roll.
So let's change this to ask for permissions to the camera roll here.
With that go back and click take image.
Now I'm asking for a one to access allow access to photos and now I would like yes I get camera and
all the way to the simulator which now is a different era and is pretty clear regarding what's the issue.
The IAW simulator simply doesn't have a camera so we'll continue on Android from now on but of course
you can test us on a real iPhone to see that there.
It also does work if you dare scan your expo barcode with the expo app and run the app there as you
saw it at the beginning of the course.
You can take images with a real phone and I'll all demonstrate the finished app at the end of this module
on both Iaw and Android devices on real devices.
So for the moment I'll focus on Android and they are of course we were already able to open this.
I'm again ask here but now I can open this and take an image that's of course nice but taking the image
like this is not everything I want to do.
I also want you able to configure how I take it and I want to be able to use it.